
# Github Files
## CodeBook.md
The code book that describes the contents of the 'tidyData.txt' file.

## GetData.R
The R program used to fetch the data, unzip the fetched file, and move necessary files to working directory

## run_analysis.R
The R program that process the date and produces the 'tidyData.txt' file.

## tidyData.txt
The required output file.  Generated by run_analysis.R

## ClassProjectAssignment.txt
Copy of the original class project assignment page with instructions of submission process.

## AssignmentChecklist.txt
Auxiliary file with checklist to make sure all of assignment required files where produced.

## .gitignore  
github helper file

# Process

## Data Download
The data was fetched from 
[https://d396qusza40orc.cloudfront.net/getdata%2Fprojectfiles%2FUCI%20HAR%20Dataset.zip](https://d396qusza40orc.cloudfront.net/getdata%2Fprojectfiles%2FUCI%20HAR%20Dataset.zip)
with the GetData.R file.

'GetData.R' unzips the downloaded file and moves required files from subdirectories to the working direcotry.

## Data Processing

'run_analysis.R' is the R program that processes the data.

The program flow attempts to mirror the assignment requirement in the order they were presented.

### 1

For the first requirement, merging the 'test' and 'train' data, the 'test' and 'train' files
were processed by a function because the processing of the two raw files differed only in the 
source files.

The all the columns of the X_underscore file were bound with the corresponding activity from the 
y_underscore file and the corresponding subject from the subject_underscore file.  [cbind]

'rbind' was used to create one large data frame from both the 'test' and 'train' data.

### 2

For the second requirement, the file 'feature.txt' was read in.  It has two columns, the column index
in the measurement file (feature_id) and the name of the measurement (feature_name).  Those desired features were defined as
those with the string '-mean()' or '-std()' in them.  'grepl' was used to create a logical to select
the desired rows.

'desiredFeatures$feature_id' was used to pull out the required columns from 'totalDS' to create 'desiredDS'.

### 4 (out of order) 

Since all the required data to satisfy the fourth requirement was on hand, 'desiredFeature$feature_name' was
used to label the column names of 'desiredDS'.

### 3

To satisfy the third requirement, the file 'activity_labels.txt' was read and 'merge' applied on 'desiredDS' along
the common column 'activity_id'.  The result was placed in 'activityLabelsDS'.

### 5

Finally, the 'reshape2' library commands, 'melt' and 'dcast' were used to reshape the data for each combination
of 'subject_id' and 'activity_name'.  The mean was taken of each variable.  The data was written to 
'tidyData.txt' with the write.table command using the 'row.name=FALSE' option.

